A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.
A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.
 A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.
A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).
During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.
The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).
Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.
Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.
Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.
A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.
Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.
A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.
In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.
A cat cannot see directly under its nose.
Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.
Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.
The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.
A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.
Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.
Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more
A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.
Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.
Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.
The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.
In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.
If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.
Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.
Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.
While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.
According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.
A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.
The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).
The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.
Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.
The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).
It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.
Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.
A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.
In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.
Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.
Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.
In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.
Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.
The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.
A group of cats is called a clowder.
About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.
A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.
Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.
Female felines are \superfecund
The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.
Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.
A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.
Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.
Female felines are \superfecund
In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.
The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.
Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.
The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.
The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.
Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.
The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.
It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.
Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.
Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.
Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.
Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.
Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.
The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).
Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.
A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.
 A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.
The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.
The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".
Cats dislike citrus scent.
British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.
There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.
In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.
The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.
It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.
Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.
Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.
A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.
Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.
Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.
A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.
According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.
After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.
Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).
The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.
In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.
Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.
One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.
The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.
Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"
The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.
The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.
A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.
A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.
The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).
Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!
Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.
Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.
A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.
Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.
The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).
The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.
Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.
Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.
The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.
Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.
Female felines are \superfecund
It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.
A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.
Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.
Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.
Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.
While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.
About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.
The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”
Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.
Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).
When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.
A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.
The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.
Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.
A form of AIDS exists in cats.
Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!
The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.
A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.
Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.
Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.
The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.
There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.
Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.
Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.
Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.
A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.
One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.
The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.
The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.
Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.
People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.
Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.
Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.
Cat's urine glows under a black light.
Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.
The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.
Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.
Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.
The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.
Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.
The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!
A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.
A cat cannot see directly under its nose.
Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.
The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.
